---
layout: default
title: Installation
excerpt: Install pyoperators package
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

The PyOperators package is under the "CECILL-B":http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL-B_V1-en.html license, a BSD-like free software license, with a citation requirement. The source code and development is hosted at "github":https://github.com/pchanial/pyoperators. The current version of the pyoperators package is {{ site.version_stable }}, and it is still in beta stage.

h2. The easy way

The easiest way to download and install the PyOperators package is by using the "pip":http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/index.html utility. It will fetch the package and its dependencies from the "Python Package Index":http://pypi.python.org/pypi and install them.

bc. pip install pyoperators --user

To upgrade an already installed PyOperators package:

bc. pip install --upgrade pyoperators --user

h2. The Git way

You can also clone the Github repository, using the version control system "Git":http://git-scm.com/:

bc. $ git clone git://github.com/pchanial/pyoperators.git
$ cd pyoperators.git
$ sudo python setup.py install

This method is convenient to test PyOperators' development branch but package dependencies must be installed beforehand (see the "setup.py":https://github.com/pchanial/pyoperators/blob/v{{site.version_stable}}/setup.py file for the list of requirements). The package can be updated by typing (if you've just cloned the repository, you will obviously not get anything new):

bc. $ git pull
Already up-to-date.
